UNIT 4: Home on the Veld

Word Power

smearing: coat carelessly
grazed: eat grass in a field
weeding: remove unwanted plants
plentiful: so much

Meaningful sentences with words listed below:

1. harvesting: The beginning of harvest varies from year to year.

2. slingshot: 

pg 9

My mother was in charge of three rondavels at 
Qunu which, as I remember, were always filled
with the children of my relations. In fact, I 
can hardly remember any occasion as a child 
when I was alone. In African culture, the sons 
and daughters of one's aunts and uncles are
considered brothers and sisters, not cousins.
My mother's sister is my mother and my brother's
child is my son or my daughter.

1. What was the author's mother responsible for?
A. Nelson Mandela's mother was responsible for taking care of 3 houses and families. She was responsible for household chores, taking care of children and their needs.

2. What is the reason that the author was never alone in his childhood?
A. In the village where Nelson Mandela grew up, families used to stay together, eat together and played together. There were so many children of his uncle and aunts, that he never was alone.

3. Describe family relationships in African culture.
A. In African culture, they lived as joint family. Children of brothers and sisters were together. The sons and daughters of one's uncles and aunts are considered brothers and sisters, not cousins. Also, uncle and aunt are called father and mother.

4. Compare relationships in the African culure with that of what you share within your own family.
A. Compared to how Nelson Mandela grew up, it is different in my family. Me and my cousin stay in different houses, but near by. We meet occassionaly and have fun going to restaurants together. We meet on birthdays and greet each other.

pg 10

It was in the field that...in its various techniques.

1. What did the author learn in his childhood?
A. Nelson Mandela lived in a village with near by fields. He learnt how to gather wild honey, fruits and edible roots. He learnt how to dring milk directly from udder of a cow. He also learnt how to catch fish and knock birds using slingshot.

2. What was considered as the essential skill for African boys?
A. Nelson Mandela learnt various things like Of the many things Nelson Mandela learnt during early childhood. One thing that was essential knowledge was stick-fight. He became skilled in various techniques.

3. Do you think the author had a happy childhood in spite of poverty? Give reasons for your answer.
A. Yes, author had happy childhood. He had children around him always and huge open spaces to play. He had fun learning gathering of honey, catch fish and knock birds.


BEYOND HOMEWORK

Sentences with above words
--------------------------
smearing: The boy's face was smeared with mud.

grazed: The cattle grazed in the fields.

weeding: I was weeding a flower bed.

Meanings:
--------
harvesting: (meaning) the act of gathering crops.
slingshot: a handheld catapult
